Okay, so that is the ECI or that is
the Terraform cloud components, right?
And as I said before, these are reusable,
if it's provider, Amazon cluster,
Google cluster, whatever,
that's up to you.
But the main point is to think
of these as logical components.
So that's the first thing
we're gonna be building.
The second thing we're gonna be
building is the service part.
This is the developer side.
So this side, right?
This was the infrastructure side, right?
The first team or
set of section we were trying to solve.
The next one is for developers.
Now you'll see that there's
components here that we create, and
then there's components that developers
touch that we've created for them.
Now, if I'm a developer, on the left,
you'll see that if I go up,
I directly go into service management,
right?
Terraform TFE, right?
There's a reason for that,
and I'll explain it further.
This is kinda showing a little
bit of spoilers as well.
Which is we can actually make it so
that Terraform TFE can even manage these
configurations, but
I'll show you guys that later.
The TLDR is that once we
get to GitHub workspace,
what do we get out of
the GitHub workspace?
Our repository, right?
What does that give the developer
the ability to make code?
We just solved the problem.
Awesome.
Let's solve another problem.
Well, the developer can make code now but
they don't know how to test their
changes cool BAM GitHub actions, right?
Now we have the ability
to have CI run tests,
make sure everything's running fine cool,
okay?
Now we wanted to play.
Guess what, we can actually use GitHub
actions for this and a separate workflow.
And so in this case, we'll also use
GitHub actions to go out to ECS and
deploy our image.
However, we wanna empower the developers
with more than just deploying images.
We also wanna empower the developers
to be able to update their values for
their service, right?
And so in this design, what we actually
do is we include the configuration,
non secrets, of course,
in the repository with the service.
Can anyone guess why we might do that?
>> You don't wanna commit secrets.
>> Well, that part, yeah.
But why would we have the actual
non-secret configuration in the repo?
>> That's for
the CICD pipeline to function properly?
>> Kind of, part of that, yeah.
>> We want the developer
to have access to?
>> Yes.
We want the developers to manage their
deployments of their configurations not
us, right?
So this could also be another service
that pulls those secrets in that
the developers go and
manage right like vault, right?
But the main point here is that we're
giving the developers the ability to
configure and change the configurations
of their services, right?
We're not taking care of that and
we're building that into the system so
that they can do that themselves.
Remember, we said that the product
service workspace is what deploys our
infrastructure to Amazon Cloud, right?
So you could see how all of these
components really start to work together.
We've got the Terraform
product service repository, so
that if I was an infrastructure,
I could come here, make changes, and
update every service that's been deployed,
right?
Same thing with GitHub.
If I wanted to update my specific
repository, I could go to my workspace and
update it.
Every part in this stack is automated.
And it's thought out to be such so
that we save time, right?
Save time.
Do not do the same thing twice.
It's like a motto I try and live by.
There's no need for
you to do the same thing twice.
So just automate it.
And so again, you'll see that
with Terraform product service,
we have a repo for it, right?
For Terraform product service,
For product service,
we have a repo for it.
That GitOps model of the source
of truth is the repository.
And it also makes it so that then
the developers use these as interfaces,
all right?
Developer wants to make changes,
they go to the repo, right?
Things like that.
Any questions?
>> Not a specific question but
there's a little debate in
the chat about the need for
this level of complexity managing
this many different Nepos.
Can you speak to the scenarios-
>> Yeah.
So I get this a lot.
Why do you need the complexity?
Let me preface this by saying this is for
teams normally of at least
more than one person.
[LAUGH] If you
are an individual by yourself,
you do not have the responsibility
to Rrespond to anyone but yourself.
So in that case, if you wanna have
lower levels of abstraction and
things like that, you totally can't.
What I'm showing you is a circumstance
where every one of these project repos is
actually owned by a team.
The DevOps teams owns all
the infrastructure repos.
Not everyone touches those repos, right?
The developers touch the product,
service repos, right?
We, I don't even really touch those.
Those layers of abstraction
help those separations.
But if you don't have that
much separation, then yes,
it might make sense for
you to not do that.
My only caveat, and
to the person in chat who said that,
I want you to listen to me very carefully,
okay?
You still need to make sure that you
are in charge of your life cycles.
If you merge your network components
with your cluster components,
then both are gonna get
updated at the same time.
You might not want that.
You might not wanna make
a network change and
be terrified that you're accidentally
gonna touch a cluster or something.
So that's my only discussion or
my only retort to that really
is abstract with purpose, right?
If you don't need it,
then it's not necessarily required.
But There's reasons why we separate these.
Like I said, if I wanna go to the network
repository and just update every network
and not be worried about touching
clusters, that abstraction is good, right?
It gives me the ability to
modify 50 networks at once and
never once in my mind have to think
about any other resource, right?
And so
when we talk about production changes,
when we talk about really critical mission
critical changes, this is helpful,
that abstraction is super helpful.
Reality of it is if you
join stuff together,
it just gives more possibility for
more things to break [LAUGH].
And that's just automation.
Yeah.
Yes.
There any kind of sandbox environment
where we can safely simulate
creating resources without actually
creating them for educational purposes or.
>> That's a good question.
>> Zombie AWS services.
>> Yeah, so there is something out there
called LocalStack and I didn't include it.
But this is actually a really great
tool that we do use it hippo as well.
Now, it doesn't do everything to be
fair cuz you can't do everything.
You can't recreate the lambda
infrastructure on your computer that
would be very difficult or S3, right?
And so local stack Kind of tries to meet
you in the middle where it does that
like mocking idea that I mentioned before.
Where local stack will give you access
to the API's and other things like that.
And then it will simulate that
you're creating these resources so
that you can run automation against it and
test it.
t's really under the hood just mocked
API's from Amazon but it does let it so
that you could run.
Like for example going back to end to end
testing this is how you could potentially
do end to end testing with TerraForm.
Does that make sense?
Because you can use LocalStack to
emulate it being your cloud and
then run Terraform against local stack,
right?
In CI, to make sure that,
it won't be perfect, of course,
because it's not
the actual infrastructure.
But it will at least make it so that you
can you can actually run it against.
Temporary accounts so to speak.
Yeah.
So yeah, this is a good solution.
I didn't include it because it used
to be completely open source and
then they realized that they
could make money off of it.
[LAUGH] So
they've got like pricing models.
To give you an example, the free one
basically gives you the very simple APIs,
like the stuff you would use a lot,
S3, EC2, stuff like that.
These ones are for lambdas.
You can see all the stuff in here.
They can do a lot.
Certificate Manager, Amplify, API Gateway.
It can emulate a lot of
what you create in Amazon.
Yeah.
But it's a paid for product now.
The workshop materials.
So this is at the end of the slides.
So if you wanna grab the links there you
can, but these repos here are all public
and they are all the repositories
that we will be creating and
we're gonna start working on and
it basically goes from top to bottom.
We're gonna start with Terraform cloud,
automating Terraform cloud,
we're then gonna work on GitHub,
creating our repositories.
That's the next problem we have to solve.
Then after that, we're gonna create
our first Amazon network, right?
We're gonna create a repo for
that network.
Yeah.
>> Are these links gonna represent the end
product at the end of the list?
>> Yeah, they do.
Yeah, they represent the end products.
But there are branches in them,
to where you can see the different
progress that we made through them.
So just click on the branches
in the repos, and
then you'll see specific sections
that we're gonna be going through.
The latest is the absolute end product,
but there are branches in there to kind of
help you see how we change stuff and I'll
give you an idea of how all this evolved.